new k8s operator dev docs (#1213)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: docs/k8s/guides/local-cluster.mdx

---
title: Local Cluster Options
pagination_next: k8s/installation/install
---

import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";

# Run a local Kubernetes Cluster

When installing the ngrok Kubernetes operator, you may want to install it in a locally running Kubernetes cluster rather than paying for one from a cloud provider.

This is useful for:

- Quickly getting started trying out the ngrok Operator
- Local development & testing
- Connecting containerized workloads on your local machine to your ngrok infrastructure
- Faster iteration cycles without cloud latency

> Running Kubernetes inside containers has the benefits of being quick and simple to setup compared to a bare-metal installation and keeps the Kubernetes environment more isolated from the dependencies and other applications on your computer.
> This is not a recommendation for how you should productionize your Kubernetes setup, but rather a guide on getting an easy to use local environment setup for development and testing.
> The following sections outline various options for running Kubernetes inside Docker containers on your local machine, but you can run the ngrok Kubernetes operator in any Kubernetes cluster you like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running Kubernetes inside containers has the benefits of being quick and simple to setup compared to a bare-metal installation and keeps the Kubernetes environment more isolated from the dependencies and other applications on your computer.

:::note
This is not a recommendation for how you should productionize your Kubernetes setup, but rather a guide on configuring an easy to use local environment for development and testing. The following sections outline various options for running Kubernetes inside Docker containers on your local machine, but you can run the ngrok Kubernetes operator in any Kubernetes cluster you like.
:::
```

## 1. Pick a Container Runtime

> Before setting up a local Kubernetes cluster, you need a container runtime. The container runtime is responsible for running containers, managing their lifecycle, and handling networking.

Reviewer: This is a thought from @nijikokun: It might be useful to suggest a container runtime based on the cluster provider the user has, since they depend on each other

Author: Not sure that I follow. If the user already has a cluster provider installed, then they should already have a container runtime.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what he meant exactly either, but he mentioned it in a sync with me and I thought I'd flag it. Maybe Niji can circle back and make a PR to add whatever changes he meant after this is merged
